content/build_flags.mdx, before:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Build flags.

## Disclaimer and Informations.

When you build, you will often need some specific flags, depending on the situation.

Here, we'll try to establish a **non exhaustive** list of what flags you can find.

It's an effort made by the community to try to gather the flags. If you find this section incomplete, or if you want to add some things to it, please send a message to Onelots on discord.

<Callout>
  A flag is often used in the `lineage_$device.mk` file in your device tree. A
  flag follows the form `FLAG := value`
</Callout>

## Flags list

| Flag itself                      | Default value |   Accepted value    |                                                                      What it's made for                                                                       |
| :------------------------------- | :-----------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| `EVO_BUILD_TYPE`                 |  Unofficial   | Official/Unofficial |                                   Define if a build is official or unofficial. allowed as flag but prefer to use as export.                                   |
| `WITH_GMS`                       |     True      |     true/false      |                                        Define if the build has Google Apps or if it's a vanilla one. (Without google.)                                        |
| `TARGET_USES_MINI_GAPPS`         |     False     |     true/false      |                       It often happens that a device can't fit all the google apps. So we use this flag to use a smaller gapps package.                       |
| `TARGET_USES_PICO_GAPPS`         |     False     |     true/false      |                        Same as MINI_GAPPS, but this one is the smallest working one. Not recommended tho because doesn't have Velvet.                         |
| `BUILD_BCR`                      |     true      |     true/false      |                                                     Allows to build (or not) the app Basic Call Recorder                                                      |
| `TARGET_HAS_UDFPS`               |   depends !   |     true/false      |                                  indicate wether the devices has **U**nder **D**isplay **F**inger**P**rint **S**ensor or not                                  |
| `TARGET_SUPPORT_BOOT_ANIMATIONS` |     true      |     true/false      |                          Allows to define if boot animations are working on the device or not, and allows to hide options in evolver                          |
| `TARGET_DISABLE_EPPE`            |     false     |     true/false      |    **E**nforce **P**roduct **P**ackages **E**xistance. EPPE Requires all requested packages to exist, so disabling it allows some packages to be missing.     |
| `TARGET_INCLUDE_ACCORD`          |     true      |     true/false      | Allows to define if the build will include [Accord app](https://github.com/FoedusProgramme/Accord). Accord is a music player with apple music like interface. |

Commit message:

wiki: introduce dynamic metadata
* feat: add page names to metadata
* feat: add front matter
* fix: duplicate generate metadata
* feat: add metadata to open graph
* feat: improve front matter
* docs: improve setup env description

content/build_flags.mdx, after:

---
title: Build flags
description: A list of build flags and what they are used for.
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Build flags

## Disclaimer and Informations.

When you build, you will often need some specific flags, depending on the situation.

Here, we'll try to establish a **non exhaustive** list of what flags you can find.

It's an effort made by the community to try to gather the flags. If you find this section incomplete, or if you want to add some things to it, please send a message to Onelots on discord.

<Callout>
  A flag is often used in the `lineage_$device.mk` file in your device tree. A
  flag follows the form `FLAG := value`
</Callout>

## Flags list

| Flag itself                      | Default value |   Accepted value    |                                                                      What it's made for                                                                       |
| :------------------------------- | :-----------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| `EVO_BUILD_TYPE`                 |  Unofficial   | Official/Unofficial |                                   Define if a build is official or unofficial. allowed as flag but prefer to use as export.                                   |
| `WITH_GMS`                       |     True      |     true/false      |                                        Define if the build has Google Apps or if it's a vanilla one. (Without google.)                                        |
| `TARGET_USES_MINI_GAPPS`         |     False     |     true/false      |                       It often happens that a device can't fit all the google apps. So we use this flag to use a smaller gapps package.                       |
| `TARGET_USES_PICO_GAPPS`         |     False     |     true/false      |                        Same as MINI_GAPPS, but this one is the smallest working one. Not recommended tho because doesn't have Velvet.                         |
| `BUILD_BCR`                      |     true      |     true/false      |                                                     Allows to build (or not) the app Basic Call Recorder                                                      |
| `TARGET_HAS_UDFPS`               |   depends !   |     true/false      |                                  indicate wether the devices has **U**nder **D**isplay **F**inger**P**rint **S**ensor or not                                  |
| `TARGET_SUPPORT_BOOT_ANIMATIONS` |     true      |     true/false      |                          Allows to define if boot animations are working on the device or not, and allows to hide options in evolver                          |
| `TARGET_DISABLE_EPPE`            |     false     |     true/false      |    **E**nforce **P**roduct **P**ackages **E**xistance. EPPE Requires all requested packages to exist, so disabling it allows some packages to be missing.     |
| `TARGET_INCLUDE_ACCORD`          |     true      |     true/false      | Allows to define if the build will include [Accord app](https://github.com/FoedusProgramme/Accord). Accord is a music player with apple music like interface. |
