content/installing-evolution-x.mdx, before:

---
title: Installing Evolution X
description: Learn how to install Evolution X on your device
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Installing Evolution X

<Callout type="warning">
  This guide provides **basic** instructions for installing our ROM. **Always
  check** your device's [XDA thread](https://xdaforums.com) for specific
  exceptions.
</Callout>

## 1: First time install

### Downloading the ROM

Since 08/2024, we support vanilla builds (without gapps) but it's up to the maintainer. Be careful and download the correct package !

---

To get started, you will need to download the ROM for your device. It is important to download the correct build for your device.

<Callout type="error">
  Do not flash builds for other devices, it will brick your device!
</Callout>

You can download the ROM zip from various sources.

- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.png" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's website](https://evolution-x.org/downloads)
- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.svg" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/evolution-x/files/)
- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.png" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's Mirror](https://evolution-x.org/) (Currently under test)

You will need to know your **device model** or **codename** to find the correct build.
To do so, you can visit our website and check if your device is available.

<Callout type="info">
  If you can't find your device, it doesn't mean that no one did it outside EvoX
  . It's called an "Unofficial build" and it may work. That said, we won't
  provide any support for it.
</Callout>

### Selecting the correct vendor

> Note that Google apps and services (gapps) are already included !

Check the XDA thread of your device to find the required vendor or firmware for the ROM and download it.
The softwares needed will **always** be highlighted on XDA.

### Flashing the ROM

After having downloaded the correct ROM build and vendor/firmware zip file, we can proceed with the flashing process. Boot your device into recovery mode, and wipe data, cache and system using our recovery.

Flash the required vendor/firmware and the downloaded ROM build. Reboot to system and enjoy the ROM.

_The first bootup could take some additional time_

<Callout type="warning">
  Once again, the instructions provided here are **only for reference**; you
  should **ALWAYS** follow the instructions on the XDA thread.
</Callout>

<Callout type="success">
  Since our new website (available [here](https://evolution-x.org/downloads)),
  instructions are given for each device. Please check it if you want to know
  how to flash the rom for your device!
</Callout>

### Rooting your device

There are many ways to root a device, and we won't provide support for it. That said, the more used methods are :

- [Magisk](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk)
- Apatch
- [Kernel SU](https://kernelsu.org/)

<Callout type="info">
  Each method can be supported, or may not be ! Always ask people having the
  same device as you.
</Callout>

## 2: Updating EvolutionX

<Callout type="warning">
  As usual, **Always** check what your device's group/XDA thread says about it.
  Sometimes, **updates may break your system** so stay tuned when an update is
  out.
</Callout>
### 1: OTA Updates

EvolutionX has a built-in OTA update system. This means that when an update is out, it'll come directly in your settings with a notification, like if it was an "official" update (like if OnePlus or Xiaomi deployed one)

To update via OTA, please follow the following tutorial.

![ota_updates.png](/guides/ota_updates.png)

### 2: Update via ADB

_Here, we assume you have [adb drivers](https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/) installed on your computer._

---

Simply download the ROM package from the source you want.
Then:

1. Reboot to recovery
2. Select "Apply update"
3. Tap "Apply from ADB"

Then plug your phone to your computer, and simply execute this command:

```bash
adb sideload YourZipFile.zip
```

Now, you just have to wait for the sideload to complete.
Follow the instructions displayed on the screen, depending on the device, it could propose you to update the recovery at the same time.

<Callout type="success">
  Depending on the build type, the sideload can be "stuck" but it's **normal**
  
- A userdebug build will stop around 47%
- A user build will stop around 97%

</Callout>

### 3: Update from internal storage

Depending on the device, you may have the "Update from internal storage" option while updating from **bootloader**.

If you want to do so, put the zip file on your sd card, and select this build after clicking "Update from internal storage"

The rom will update itself like with ADB.

# Do not relock your bootloader !

We know it can be tempting, you may want to do it since you've seen the option in developer settings.
Right, NO. **DO NOT.**

## DO NOT RELOCK YOUR BOOTLOADER. Not with EvolutionX on it.

Only a few roms (GrapheneOs for example) and only a few devices (some pixels, and some oneplus) are able to do this safely. Otherwise you will only brick your device, and it'll be a REALLY COMPLICATED situation.

<Callout type="error">
  Please, never re-lock your bootloader while being on EvoX. You'll lose your
  device forever.
</Callout>

Commit message:

wiki: add custom OTA guide & minore visual improvements
* Fix grammar issues and typos
* Fix needed packages for Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
* Add a reference to setup Ubuntu 24.04 to build Evolution X
* Custom OTA initial draft
* Add APatch documentation link
* Add KernelSU-Next root method
* Use Nextra's file name and line number highlighting features
* Replace the icon for custom OTA page

content/installing-evolution-x.mdx, after:

---
title: Installing Evolution X
description: Learn how to install Evolution X on your device
---

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Installing Evolution X

<Callout type="warning">
  This guide provides **basic** instructions for installing our ROM. **Always
  check** your device's [XDA thread](https://xdaforums.com) for specific
  exceptions.
</Callout>

## 1: First time install

### Downloading the ROM

Since 08/2024, we support vanilla builds (without gapps) but it's up to the maintainer. Be careful and download the correct package !

---

To get started, you will need to download the ROM for your device. It is important to download the correct build for your device.

<Callout type="error">
  Do not flash builds for other devices, it will brick your device!
</Callout>

You can download the ROM zip from various sources.

- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.png" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's website](https://evolution-x.org/downloads)
- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.svg" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's SourceForge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/evolution-x/files/)
- [<img src="/favicons/sfav.png" alt="sitefav" style={{ width: 20 }}/> EvolutionX's Mirror](https://evolution-x.org/) (Currently under test)

You will need to know your **device model** or **codename** to find the correct build.
To do so, you can visit our website and check if your device is available.

<Callout type="info">
  If you can't find your device, it doesn't mean that no one did it outside EvoX
  . It's called an "Unofficial build" and it may work. That said, we won't
  provide any support for it.
</Callout>

### Selecting the correct vendor

> Note that Google apps and services (gapps) are already included !

Check the XDA thread of your device to find the required vendor or firmware for the ROM and download it.
The needed software will **always** be highlighted on XDA.

### Flashing the ROM

After having downloaded the correct ROM build and vendor/firmware zip file, we can proceed with the flashing process. Boot your device into recovery mode, and wipe data, cache and system using our recovery.

Flash the required vendor/firmware and the downloaded ROM build. Reboot to system and enjoy the ROM.

_The first boot could take some additional time_

<Callout type="warning">
  Once again, the instructions provided here are **only for reference**; you
  should **ALWAYS** follow the instructions on the XDA thread.
</Callout>

<Callout type="success">
  Since our new website (available [here](https://evolution-x.org/downloads)),
  instructions are given for each device. Please check it if you want to know
  how to flash the rom for your device!
</Callout>

### Rooting your device

There are many ways to root a device, and we won't provide support for it. That said, the more used methods are :

- [Magisk](https://github.com/topjohnwu/Magisk)
- [APatch](https://apatch.dev/)
- [KernelSU](https://kernelsu.org/)
- [KernelSU-Next](https://kernelsu-next.github.io/KernelSU-Next/)

<Callout type="info">
  Each method can be supported, or may not be ! Always ask people having the
  same device as you.
</Callout>

## 2: Updating EvolutionX

<Callout type="warning">
  As usual, **Always** check what your device's group/XDA thread says about it.
  Sometimes, **updates may break your system** so stay tuned when an update is
  out.
</Callout>
### 1: OTA Updates

EvolutionX has a built-in OTA update system. This means that when an update is out, it'll come directly in your settings with a notification, like if it was an "official" update (like if OnePlus or Xiaomi deployed one)

To update via OTA, please follow the following tutorial.

![ota_updates.png](/guides/ota_updates.png)

### 2: Update via ADB

_Here, we assume you have [adb drivers](https://www.xda-developers.com/install-adb-windows-macos-linux/) installed on your computer._

---

Simply download the ROM package from the source you want.
Then:

1. Reboot to recovery
2. Select "Apply update"
3. Tap "Apply from ADB"

Then plug your phone to your computer, and simply execute this command:

```bash
adb sideload YourZipFile.zip
```

Now, you just have to wait for the sideload to complete.
Follow the instructions displayed on the screen, depending on the device, it could propose you to update the recovery at the same time.

<Callout type="success">
  Depending on the build type, the sideload can be "stuck" but it's **normal**
  
- A userdebug build will stop around 47%
- A user build will stop around 97%

</Callout>

### 3: Update from internal storage

Depending on the device, you may have the "Update from internal storage" option while updating from **bootloader**.

If you want to do so, put the zip file on your sd card, and select this build after clicking "Update from internal storage"

The rom will update itself like with ADB.

# Do not re-lock your bootloader !

We know it can be tempting, you may want to do it since you've seen the option in developer settings.
Right, NO. **DO NOT.**

## DO NOT RE-LOCK YOUR BOOTLOADER. Not with EvolutionX on it.

Only a few roms (GrapheneOs for example) and only a few devices (some Pixels, and some OnePlus) are able to do this safely. Otherwise you will only brick your device, and it'll be a REALLY COMPLICATED situation.

<Callout type="error">
  Please, never re-lock your bootloader while being on EvoX. You'll lose your
  device forever.
</Callout>
