content/setting-up-env.mdx, before:

---
title: Setting up Environments
description: Learn how to setup a proper environment to build Evolution X
---

import { Callout, Steps, Tabs, Cards } from "nextra/components";
import SuccessCallout from "../app/components/SuccessCallout";

# Setting up Environments to build Evolution X

This guide is for **Linux Users** targeting Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.

<Callout type="warning">
  Make sure you have the appropriate performance requirements to build Android!
  Minimum requirements for A14 are:
- 12 cores
- 64Gb of RAM
- 64 bit system.

</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  This guide has been tested to work on:
  
- WSL 2 Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS
- Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS

</Callout>

### Don't wanna go thru hassles? Introducing [akhilnarang's script](https://github.com/akhilnarang/scripts) repository. This method is the fastest one.

```bash
sudo apt install git curl ccache
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/akhilnarang/scripts; cd scripts; sudo bash setup/android_build_env.sh
```

after you've done these commands you can skip to [Step 3](#make-a-folder-and-initialize-repo)

---

<Steps>
## Setting up a build environment!

<Callout type="info">
  Android builds are typically done on Ubuntu LTS (like 22.04), which has the
  necessary tools. A 64-bit system architecture and CPU are required for
  building Android
</Callout>

## Installing required packages

A 64-bit version of Ubuntu (22.04 is recommended as of now because of LTS).

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install bc bison build-essential ccache curl flex g++-multilib gcc-multilib git git-lfs gnupg gperf imagemagick protobuf-compiler python3-protobuf lib32readline-dev lib32z1-dev libdw-dev libelf-dev lz4 libsdl1.2-dev libssl-dev libxml2 libxml2-utils lzop pngcrush rsync schedtool squashfs-tools xsltproc zip zlib1g-dev lib32ncurses5-dev libncurses5 libncurses5-dev python-is-python3
```

If you want to use latest Ubuntu LTS to build EvolutionX please review [Setting up Ubuntu 24.04 to build Evolution X](setting-up-env-latest-lts)

## Make A Folder And Initialize Repo

This will create a folder under `/home/$user` (your current user)
Change it to your convenience.

```bash
cd && mkdir evo && cd evo
```

```bash
repo init -u https://github.com/Evolution-X/manifest -b vic --git-lfs
```

```bash
repo sync -c -j$(nproc --all) --force-sync --no-clone-bundle --no-tags
```

<Callout type="info">
  You can find EvolutionX's manifest [right
  here](https://github.com/Evolution-X/manifest)
</Callout>

## Source the Build Environment

Run this command to load the necessary tools required for building.

```bash
. build/envsetup.sh
```

<Callout type="info">
  You can add this in your `.bashrc` to automatically run it:
  
```
echo 'cd evo && source build/envsetup.sh && cd' >> ~/.bashrc
```

</Callout>

## The Keys

<Callout type="error">
  Without this, your build won't be able to pass DEVICE or BASIC integrity.
  Remember to **BACKUP** your keys !
</Callout>

<Tabs items={["Unofficial Build", "Official Build"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  If you are an unofficial builder, there is a [script](https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys-template) that will generate the keys for you. Simply execute:

```bash
croot && git clone https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys-template vendor/evolution-priv/keys
cd vendor/evolution-priv/keys
```

```bash
./keys.sh
```

</Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    This will need you to be logged in git on your server.

```bash
croot && git clone https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys vendor/evolution-priv/keys
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If any of you leak this, whether that be intentionally, or on accident, you
  will be removed from the project and never allowed back. So, if you use a
  shared server, be careful, otherwise it could very well mean the end of your
  time at Evolution X
</Callout>
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Building

<details>
{<summary className="p-2 x:focus-visible:nextra-focus x:cursor-pointer x:transition-colors x:hover:bg-gray-100 x:dark:hover:bg-neutral-800 x:select-none x:rounded x:[&::-webkit-details-marker]:hidden x:flex x:items-center">
  <svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor" fill="none" strokeWidth="3" height="1em" className="x:motion-reduce:transition-none x:ms-2 x:me-1 x:shrink-0 x:rtl:rotate-180 x:[[data-expanded]>summary:first-child>&amp;]:rotate-90 x:transition"><path d="M9 5l7 7-7 7" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round"></path></svg>
  <p className="x:grow x:hyphens-auto x:p-1">Note for official maintainers</p>
  </summary>}

<Callout type="error">
  Skip this part if you are not an official maintainer.
</Callout>

In the case where you are an official maintainer, please remember to set up the build type !

```bash
export EVO_BUILD_TYPE=Official
```

In order to set it up, you only have to
To make sure it's applied every time, you can add it at the end of your `~/.bashrc` file:

```bash
echo 'export EVO_BUILD_TYPE=Official' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Then keep reading this.

</details>

<Callout type="info">
  Before running compilation process you can [Set up custom OTA
  updates](setting-up-custom-ota).
</Callout>

For official and unofficial maintainers

```bash
lunch lineage_$device-$release-userdebug
```

<Callout type="info">
  Kindly visit [the lunch page](/lunch) to learn about the lunch command.
</Callout>

Using Sargo as an example, building AP4A release, the command would be `lunch lineage_sargo-ap4a-userdebug`.

When the device is lunched, simply execute

```bash
m evolution
```

And the build will start.

</Steps>

---

<SuccessCallout>
  That's all you need to do! You're good to compile the build and #KeepEvolving!
</SuccessCallout>

#### Reference

<div style={{ paddingTop: 15 }} />
<Cards.Card
  icon={<span className="material-symbols-rounded">android</span>}
  title="Android Open Source Project"
  href="https://source.android.com/setup/build/initializing"
/>

Commit message:

wiki: update to bka
* wiki: remove branch from xda template
* wiki: update flags
* wiki: correct android version
* wiki: mirror -> cdn
* wiki: endpoint /downloads -> /devices
* wiki: switch to platform tools
* wiki: update onboarding
* wiki: update lunch component
* wiki: update env setup
* wiki: update lunch guide
* fix title & desc
* change banner to bp2a (thanks onelots)
* corrected branch (udc -> bka)
* LunchCommand now replaces all $release occurrences

content/setting-up-env.mdx, after:

---
title: Setting up Environments
description: Learn how to setup a proper environment to build Evolution X
---

import { Callout, Steps, Tabs, Cards } from "nextra/components";
import SuccessCallout from "../app/components/SuccessCallout";
import { LunchCommand } from "../app/components/Lunch";

# Setting up Environments to build Evolution X

This guide is for **Linux Users** targeting Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.

<Callout type="warning">
  Make sure you have the appropriate performance requirements to build Android!
  Minimum requirements for A16 are:
- 12 cores
- 64Gb of RAM
- 64 bit system.

</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
  This guide has been tested to work on:
  
- WSL 2 Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS
- Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS

</Callout>

### Don't wanna go thru hassles? Introducing [akhilnarang's script](https://github.com/akhilnarang/scripts) repository. This method is the fastest one.

```bash
sudo apt install git curl ccache
```

```bash
git clone https://github.com/akhilnarang/scripts; cd scripts; sudo bash setup/android_build_env.sh
```

after you've done these commands you can skip to [Step 3](#make-a-folder-and-initialize-repo)

---

<Steps>
## Setting up a build environment!

<Callout type="info">
  Android builds are typically done on Ubuntu LTS (like 22.04), which has the
  necessary tools. A 64-bit system architecture and CPU are required for
  building Android
</Callout>

## Installing required packages

A 64-bit version of Ubuntu (22.04 is recommended as of now because of LTS).

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install bc bison build-essential ccache curl flex g++-multilib gcc-multilib git git-lfs gnupg gperf imagemagick protobuf-compiler python3-protobuf lib32readline-dev lib32z1-dev libdw-dev libelf-dev lz4 libsdl1.2-dev libssl-dev libxml2 libxml2-utils lzop pngcrush rsync schedtool squashfs-tools xsltproc zip zlib1g-dev lib32ncurses5-dev libncurses5 libncurses5-dev python-is-python3
```

If you want to use latest Ubuntu LTS to build EvolutionX please review [Setting up Ubuntu 24.04 to build Evolution X](setting-up-env-latest-lts)

## Make A Folder And Initialize Repo

This will create a folder under `/home/$user` (your current user)
Change it to your convenience.

```bash
cd && mkdir evo && cd evo
```

```bash
repo init -u https://github.com/Evolution-X/manifest -b bka --git-lfs
```

```bash
repo sync -c -j$(nproc --all) --force-sync --no-clone-bundle --no-tags
```

<Callout type="info">
  You can find EvolutionX's manifest [right
  here](https://github.com/Evolution-X/manifest)
</Callout>

## Source the Build Environment

Run this command to load the necessary tools required for building.

```bash
. build/envsetup.sh
```

<Callout type="info">
  You can add this in your `.bashrc` to automatically run it:
  
```
echo 'cd evo && source build/envsetup.sh && cd' >> ~/.bashrc
```

</Callout>

## The Keys

<Callout type="error">
  Without this, your build won't be able to pass DEVICE or BASIC integrity.
  Remember to **BACKUP** your keys !
</Callout>

<Tabs items={["Unofficial Build", "Official Build"]}>
  <Tabs.Tab>
  If you are an unofficial builder, there is a [script](https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys-template) that will generate the keys for you. Simply execute:

```bash
croot && git clone https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys-template vendor/evolution-priv/keys
cd vendor/evolution-priv/keys
```

```bash
./keys.sh
```

</Tabs.Tab>
  <Tabs.Tab>
    This will need you to be logged in git on your server.

```bash
croot && git clone https://github.com/Evolution-X/vendor_evolution-priv_keys vendor/evolution-priv/keys
```

<Callout type="warning">
  If any of you leak this, whether that be intentionally, or on accident, you
  will be removed from the project and never allowed back. So, if you use a
  shared server, be careful, otherwise it could very well mean the end of your
  time at Evolution X
</Callout>
  </Tabs.Tab>
</Tabs>

## Building

<details>
{<summary className="p-2 x:focus-visible:nextra-focus x:cursor-pointer x:transition-colors x:hover:bg-gray-100 x:dark:hover:bg-neutral-800 x:select-none x:rounded x:[&::-webkit-details-marker]:hidden x:flex x:items-center">
  <svg viewBox="0 0 24 24" stroke="currentColor" fill="none" strokeWidth="3" height="1em" className="x:motion-reduce:transition-none x:ms-2 x:me-1 x:shrink-0 x:rtl:rotate-180 x:[[data-expanded]>summary:first-child>&amp;]:rotate-90 x:transition"><path d="M9 5l7 7-7 7" strokeLinecap="round" strokeLinejoin="round"></path></svg>
  <p className="x:grow x:hyphens-auto x:p-1">Note for official maintainers</p>
  </summary>}

<Callout type="error">
  Skip this part if you are not an official maintainer.
</Callout>

In the case where you are an official maintainer, please remember to set up the build type !

```bash
export EVO_BUILD_TYPE=Official
```

In order to set it up, you only have to
To make sure it's applied every time, you can add it at the end of your `~/.bashrc` file:

```bash
echo 'export EVO_BUILD_TYPE=Official' >> ~/.bashrc
source ~/.bashrc
```

Then keep reading this.

</details>

<Callout type="info">
  Before running compilation process you can [Set up custom OTA
  updates](setting-up-custom-ota).
</Callout>

For official and unofficial maintainers

<LunchCommand>

```bash
lunch lineage_$device-$release-$build_type
```

</LunchCommand>

<Callout type="info">
  Kindly visit [the lunch page](/lunch) to learn about the lunch command.
</Callout>

Using Sargo as an example, building BP2A release, the command would be `lunch lineage_sargo-bp2a-userdebug`.

When the device is lunched, simply execute

```bash
m evolution
```

And the build will start.

</Steps>

---

<SuccessCallout>
  That's all you need to do! You're good to compile the build and #KeepEvolving!
</SuccessCallout>

#### Reference

<div style={{ paddingTop: 15 }} />
<Cards.Card
  icon={<span className="material-symbols-rounded">android</span>}
  title="Android Open Source Project"
  href="https://source.android.com/setup/build/initializing"
/>
